# Schema Information

- [Users](db-schema.md#users)
- [Organizations](db-schema.md#organizations)
- [Organization Members](db-schema.md#organization-members)
- [Sessions](db-schema.md#sessions)
- [User Sessions](db-schema.md#user-sessions)
- [Events](db-schema.md#events)
- [Votes](db-schema.md#votes)

## Users

The Users table stores information on users.

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct User {
  id: i32,
  name: string,
  andrew_id: string,
  oidc_subject: string,
  created_at: DateTimeWithTimeZone
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the user. Autogenerated.
- `name`: The (full) name of the user, as fetched from auth.
- `andrew_id`: The andrew_id of the user, as fetched from auth.
- `oidc_subject`: The OIDC subject of the user, as fetched from auth. This is for authentication, and not for the frontend.
- `created_at`: The timestamp when the user was created (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.

## Organizations

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct Organization {
  id: i32,
  name: string,
  data: Json
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the organization. Autogenerated.
- `name`: The name of the organization.
- `data`: Other data related to the organization. See [organization.data](db-json.md#organizationdata).

## Organization Members

The OrganizationMembers table is a join table between the Organizations and Users table to describe the many-to-many relationship users are allowed to have with organizations. It also stores information on what the user is allowed to do in the organization.

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct OrganizationMember {
  organization_id: i32,
  user_id: i32,
  user_role: string,
  joined_at: DateTimeWithTimeZone
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `organization_id`: Primary Key. The id for an organization. References [Organizations](db-schema.md#organizations).
- `user_id`: Primary Key. The id for the user in the organization. References [Users](db-schema.md#users).
- `user_role`: The role of the user in the organization. Specifies their permissions in the organization and creating events.
- `joined_at`: The timestamp when the user joined the organization (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.

## Sessions

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct Session {
  id: i32,
  join_code: String
  status: SessionStatus,
  created_by_user_id: i32
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the session. Autogenerated.
- `join_code`: The join code for the session. Capital alphabet and digits, 6 characters.
- `status`: The status of the session, can be "open", "locked", "closed".
- `created_by_user_id`: The id of the user who created the session. Reference [Users](db-schema.md#users).

## User Sessions

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct UserSession {
  id: i32,
  user_id: i32,
  session_id: i32,
  proxy: Option<string>,
  join_left: JoinLeft,
  timestamp: DateTimeWithTimeZone
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. Autogenerated.
- `user_id`: Foreign Key. The id for the user in the session. References [Users](db-schema.md#users).
- `session_id`: Foreign Key. The id for the session. References [Sessions](db-schema.md#sessions).
- `proxy`: Nullable string. If set, stores the user id (as a string) of the participant this user is proxying for.
- `join_left`: Whether the user joined or left the session. Can be "joined" or "left".
- `timestamp`: The timestamp when the user joined the session (when the entry was created).

## Events

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct Event {
  id: i32,
  event_type: EventType,
  name: String,
  status: StatusOption,
  start_time: DateTimeWithTimeZone,
  end_time: Option<DateTimeWithTimeZone>,
  data: Json,
  created_by_user_id: i32,
  session_id: i32,
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the event. Autogenerated.
- `event_type`: The type of the event. Is an enum type. Can be "motion" or "election".
- `name`: The name for the event.
- `status`: The status of the event. Is an enum type. Can be "active" or "inactive".
- `start_time`: The time when the event(voting) starts.
- `end_time`: The time when the event(voting) ends, if ever.
- `data`: The other data related to the event. See [event.data](db-schema.md#eventdata)
- `created_by_user_id`. The id of the user who created the event. References [Users](db-schema.md#users).
- `session_id`: The id for the session this event belongs to. References [Sessions](db-schema.md#sessions).

## Votes

This table probably breaks a normalization rule or two, but that doesn't really matter right now.

### Schema Definition

```rust
struct Vote {
  id: i32,
  event_id: i32,
  user_session_id: i32,
  cast_time: DateTimeWithTimeZone,
  data: Json,
}
```

### Field Descriptions

- `id`: Primary Key. The id for the vote. Autogenerated.
- `event_id`: Foreign Key. The event this vote belongs to. References [Events](db-schema.md#events).
- `user_session_id`: Foreign Key. The `user_session` row representing the participant/proxy vote instance. References [User Sessions](db-schema.md#user-sessions).
- `cast_time`: The time at which this vote was cast (when the entry was created). Autogenerated.
- `data`: Other data pertaining to the vote. See [vote.data](db-json.md#votedata)

Votes are unique per `(event_id, user_session_id)`.
